# A Tour of C++: The Basics
## 2.1 Introduction
## 2.2 The Basics
### Hello, World!
Every C++ program has exactly one global function named main(). The program will start by executing that function, and the
value of the integer it returns either indicates successful completion, or a unsuccessful completion (non-zero). Not every 
operating system makes use of the return value. #include tells the compiler to use the declarations of whatever library
or file that succeeds it. For example <iostream> will tell the compiler to include the declarations of the I/O facilities.
### Types, Variables, Arithmetic
A declaration is a statement that introduces a name to a program, a type defines a set of possible values for an object, 
an object is memory that holds a value for a type, a value is a set of bits interpreted according to type, and a variable is
a named object.  
C++ types, such as char, boolean, int, etc., corresponds to hardware facilities and has a fixed size for the values that can 
be stored inside of it. Char variables are normally one 8-bit byte, and are the smallest addressable amount of memory. The size
of other types, however, vary among different machines, and are retrieved by using the sizeof() operator, which returns the amount
of bytes a certain object is. There are arithmetic and comparison operators to combine and/or compare appropriate types. In C++, 
basic types, such as doubles and ints, can be mixed freely, with certain caveats of course.  
There are a few ways to initialize variables in C++: =, {}, and = {}. = is the traditional form of assignment, {} is the list initialization 
way, and prevents narrowing conversions that lose information.  
int x = 7.2; // x will be converted to an int: 7  
int y {7.2}; // error  
int z = {7.2}; // error  
When defining variables, constants cannot be left uninitialized, as they are fixed values, and variables should not be left uninitialized, as this
can cause undefined behavior. Also, when defining a variable, you can use the "auto" keyword instead of declaring a type, and
the type will be deduced from the initializer. = is used with auto as there is no problematic type conversion, since the type
is determined by the initializer.
### Constants
The "const" and "constexpr" keywords in C++ are the two keywords that indicate immutability in C++. Const means that a variable, after being
evaluated at runtime, cannot be changed and is used to mark parameters of functions as read only. It is also used to mark certain member functions
of classes known as "accessors", in order to show that they do not change data members. Constexpr functions should only be expressions returning a
value. They are evaluated at compile time, and are important for design and performance. Here are some examples from the book:  
const int dmv = 17; // dmv is a named constant  
int var = 17; // var is not a constant  
constexpr double max1 = 1.4∗square(dmv); // OK if square(17) is a constant expression  
constexpr double max2 = 1.4∗square(var); // error : var is not a constant expression  
const double max3 = 1.4∗square(var); // OK, may be evaluated at run time  
double sum(const vector<double>&); // sum will not modify its argument  
vector<double> v {1.2, 3.4, 4.5}; // v is not a constant  
const double s1 = sum(v); // OK: evaluated at run time  
constexpr double s2 = sum(v); // error : sum(v) not constant expression  
### Tests and Loops
A switch statement tests a value against a set of constants, all of which must be distinct. If none are chose, a default value is
provided, and if there is none, the switch statement does nothing. To validate input, you can use a while loop, which runs until
a certain condition is met. For example, if you want to prompt a user for some input, but it has to be of type int or a certain
char, you can use that condition inside your while loop. (while (insert_condition) {do something;}). This while loop will run
until insert_condition is false, whether it be a boolean, pointer (nullptr returns false), or something else.
### Pointers, Arrays, and Loops
There are three important declarations to know in C++. * means pointer to, and & means address of:  
int x = 10;
int* p = &x;  
This block of code initializes an integer x, then a pointer to x's memory address, accessing it by &. Now if I was to do  
int n = *asterisk*p;  (markdown uses the asterisk as a means of formatting, so i am unable to directly type it for this example)
This would access the **contents** of p, which is the value of x. To sum this up simply, * in declaration creates a pointer to
some object, prefix unary * is used to **dereference** or get the value from the pointer, and prefix unary & is to get the address
of some object.  
This is the basic syntax for a for loop in C++:  
for (auto i = 0; i != 10; ++i) {  
 std::cout << i << '\n';  
}  
This can be read as "set i to zero. While i is not 10, output it to the console, then increment it." In the for loop condition,
++ means increment the integer by 1. There is also more simple syntax for a for loop in C++:  
void print(){  
int v[] = {0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9};  
for (auto x : v) {  
std::cout << x << '\n'  
}  
}  
The for loop inside the function can be read as "for every element in v, copy it into x, then print it." You can also pass in
a list instead of a variable such as v. If you don't want to copy the values from v into x, you can declare x as auto&. This
is similar to using a pointer to x, but you don't have to dereference it using the asterisk. When used in declaration, these operators
(&,'*',[],etc.) are called declarator operators.  
If we don't want a pointer to point to an object, whether it be for use later or to represent the lack of an object, we use the nullptr
keyword. This is shared by all pointer types:  
double *pd = nullptr;  
Link<Record> *lst = nullptr;  
Note that nullptr can only be assigned to pointers, not normal data types such as ints, for example.
## 2.3 User-Defined Types
### Structures
### Classes
### Enumerations
## 2.4 Modularity